# /api/mgmnt/ API Endpoints

This reference lists the endpoints in the `/api/mgmnt/` service, all of which apply to newer REST services. The following table summarizes the endpoints and indicates whether they also apply to manually-coded REST services.

<table><tr><th>Endpoint</th><th>Summary</th><th>Applies to NEWER REST Services?</th><th>Applies to Manually-Coded REST Services?</th></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_reference_delete_v2_application">DELETE /api/mgmnt/v2/:ns/:app</a></td><td>Deletes the REST service</td><td>YES</td><td>no</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_legacy_get">GET /api/mgmnt/</a></td><td>Lists the REST-enabled web applications on this server</td><td>YES</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_legacy_get_v1_namespace">GET /api/mgmnt/v1/:ns/restapps</a></td><td>Lists the REST-enabled web applications in the namespace</td><td>YES</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_reference_get_v1_application">GET /api/mgmnt/v1/:ns/spec/:app</a></td><td>Returns the OpenAPI 2.0 specification for the REST service</td><td>no</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_reference_get_v2">GET /api/mgmnt/v2/</a></td><td>Lists the REST services on this server (including any that do not have an associated web application)</td><td>YES</td><td>no</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_reference_get_v2_namespace">GET /api/mgmnt/v2/:ns</a></td><td>Lists the REST services in the namespace (including any that do not have an associated web application)</td><td>YES</td><td>no</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://docs.intersystems.com/irisforhealthlatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GREST_reference_get_v2_application">GET /api/mgmnt/v2/:ns/:app</a></td><td>Returns the OpenAPI 2.0 specification for the REST service</td><td>YES</td><td>YES</td></tr></table>

Here `ns` is a namespace, and `app` is the name of the package that contains the REST service classes.

*   DELETE /api/mgmnt/v2/:namespace/:application/ – Deletes the classes for the given REST application. Note that this call looks for a newer REST service. It ignores any manually-coded REST services.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/ – Returns an array that contains information about REST-enabled web applications in all namespaces.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/v1/:namespace/restapps – Returns an array that contains information about REST-enabled web applications in the given namespace.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/v1/:namespace/spec/:application/ – Returns the OpenAPI 2.0 specification for the given REST service, which must be a manually-coded REST service.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/v2/ – Returns an array that contains information about the newer REST services on the server (including any that do not have an associated web application). This call ignores any manually-coded REST services.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/v2/:namespace/ – Returns an array that contains information about the newer REST services in the given namespace (including any REST services that do not have an associated web application). This call ignores any manually-coded REST services.
*   GET /api/mgmnt/v2/:namespace/:application/ – Returns the OpenAPI 2.0 specification for the given REST service. The REST service can be either a newer REST service or a manually-coded REST service.
*   POST /api/mgmnt/v2/:namespace/:application – Given a Swagger (OpenAPI 2.0) specification, this call generates the scaffolding for the REST application.
