# Adding and Removing Settings

This page describes how to add settings to and remove settings from elements of a production.

## Adding Settings

To provide new settings for a production, a business host, or an adapter, modify its class definition as follows:

1.  Add a property for each configuration setting you wish to define.
    
2.  Add a class parameter called `SETTINGS` to the class.
    
3.  Set the value of `SETTINGS` to be a comma-delimited list of the names of the properties you have just defined. For example:
    
    ```
    Property foo As %String;
    
    Property bar As %String;
    
    Parameter SETTINGS = "foo,bar";
    ```
    
    See the following section for additional details for `SETTINGS`.
    

The `foo` and `bar` settings now automatically appear in the configuration display on the `Production Configuration` page whenever an item of that class is selected for configuration.

It is possible to have a property with the same name within an adapter class and within a business host class that uses the given adapter. It is also possible to expose both of these properties as settings. The Production Configuration page displays these settings separately with separate tool tips generated by the property definitions in the respective classes.

## Removing Settings

To remove an inherited configuration setting, for a production, a business host, or an adapter, modify its class definition as follows. Update the `SETTINGS` class parameter of that class to include the setting name, preceded by a hyphen (`-`). For example:

```objectscript
Parameter SETTINGS = "-foo";
```

Note that by design, some settings cannot be removed; for example, the Pool Size setting cannot be removed.

## Specifying Categories and Controls

By default, a setting is displayed in the `Additional Settings` category on the `Details` tab when you configure a production. By default, the setting provides one of the following input mechanisms, depending on the property on which the setting is based:

*   In most cases, the setting is displayed with a plain input field.
    
*   If the property specifies the `VALUELIST` parameter, the setting is displayed with a drop-down list. The items that will appear in the drop-down list must be separated using a comma as the delimiter.
    
*   If the property is of type %Boolean, the setting is displayed as a check box.
    

In all cases, the InitialExpression of the property (if specified) controls the initial state of the input field.

You can override both the location and control type. To do so, include the setting name in `SETTINGS` as follows:

```objectscript
Parameter SETTINGS = "somesetting:category:control";
```

Or:

```objectscript
Parameter SETTINGS = "somesetting:category";
```

```objectscript
Parameter SETTINGS = "somesetting::control";
```

Where `category` and `control` indicate the category and control to use, respectively. The following subsections provide details.

You can include multiple settings, as follows:

```objectscript
Parameter SETTINGS = "setting1:category:control1,setting2:control2:editor,setting3:category:control3";
```

For example (with disallowed line breaks included):

```
Parameter SETTINGS = "HTTPServer:Basic,HTTPPort:Basic,SSLConfig:Connection:sslConfigSelector,
ProxyServer:Connection,ProxyPort:Connection,ProxyHTTPS:Connection,
URL:Basic,Credentials:Basic:credentialsSelector,UseCookies,ResponseTimeout:Connection"
```

## Available Categories

Within the `SETTINGS` parameter, `category` is one of the following case-sensitive, literal values:

*   `Info`—Places the setting into the `Information Settings` category.
    
*   `Basic`—Places the setting into the `Basic Settings` category.
    
*   `Connection`—Places the setting into the `Connection Settings` category.
    
*   `Additional`—Places the setting into the `Additional Settings` category (the default).
    
*   `Alerting`—Places the setting into the `Alerting Control` category.
    
*   `Dev`—Places the setting into the `Development and Debugging` category.
    

Or use your own category name.

## Available Controls

Within the `SETTINGS` parameter, `control` specifies the name of a specific control to use when viewing and modifying the setting in the `Production Configuration` page. Use `selector` or use the name of a class in the package `EnsPortal.Component`. See Examples for Settings Controls.

To supply extra values to your component in order to display a suitable set of options, append a set of name-value pairs as follows:

```
myControl?Prop1=Value1&Prop2=Value2&Prop3=Value3
```

Where:

*   `Prop1`, `Prop2`, `Prop3`, and so on are names of properties of the control. For example: `multiSelect`
    
*   `Value1`, `Value2`, `Value3`, and so on are the corresponding values.
    
    Use the syntax `@propertyname` to refer to a property of the JavaScript zenPage object. The supported variables are these:
    
    *   `currHostId` refers to the ID of the current Ens.Config.Item.
        
    *   `productionId` refers to the ID of the Ens.Config.Production in use.
        
    
    Use `\@` to indicate the character `@` as is.
    
    To pass values to the `context` property of a control, enclose the value in curly braces. See the subsection.
    

### The selector Control

InterSystems IRIS uses the general-purpose selector component, which you can also use; to do so, specify `control` as `selector` and then append property/value pairs.

The `selector` component allows almost any list of data or options to be displayed to the user and which allows the user to type data if needed. To configure the component in this way, use the following syntax to set the `context` property of the control:

```
context={ContextClass/ContextMethod?Arg1=Value1&Arg2=Value2&Arg3=Value3}
```

Where:

*   `ContextClass` is the name of the context class. This must be a subclass of %ZEN.Portal.ContextSearch or Ens.ContextSearch. See Examples for Settings Controls.
    
*   `ContextMethod` is a method in that class. This method provides the data from which the user chooses values.
    
*   `Arg1`, `Arg2`, `Arg3`, and so on are the names of multidimensional arguments of that method.
    
*   `Value1`, `Value2`, `Value3`, and so on are values for those arguments. The rules for values are the same as given previously (for example, you can use `@propertyname`).
    

> **Note:**
> 
> Note that the selector component also has a property named `multiSelect`. By default, the user can select only one item. To enable the user to select multiple items, include a property/value pair as follows: `multiSelect=1`.
> 
> The argument names and values must be URL encoded. For example, replace % with %25.

### Examples for Settings Controls

The following list gives examples for `control`, organized by the kind of data that they enable the user to select.

These examples use InterSystems IRIS classes. Many of these examples use the Ens.ContextSearch class, which provides a large number of useful methods. If this list does not cover your scenario, see the class documentation for Ens.ContextSearch to determine whether any of the existing methods supply the data you need. If that class does not cover your scenario, you can create your own subclass of Ens.ContextSearch.

#### BPL

```
bplSelector
```

#### business hosts in the same production

```
selector?multiSelect=1&context={Ens.ContextSearch/ProductionItems?targets=1&productionName=@productionId}
```

Or, if the user should choose only one business host:

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/ProductionItems?targets=1&productionName=@productionId}
```

#### business partners

```
partnerSelector
```

#### business rules

```
ruleSelector
```

#### character sets

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/CharacterSets}
```

#### credential sets

```
credentialsSelector
```

#### directories

```
directorySelector
```

#### DTL

```
dtlSelector
```

#### files

```
fileSelector
```

#### framing

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/getDisplayList?host=@currHostId&prop=Framing}
```

#### local interfaces

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/TCPLocalInterfaces}
```

#### schema categories appropriate for a specific business host

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/SchemaCategories?host=classname}
```

Where `classname` is the class name of the business host. For example:

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/SearchTableClasses?host=EnsLib.MsgRouter.RoutingEngineST}
```

#### schedules

```
scheduleSelector
```

#### search table classes appropriate for a specific business host

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/SearchTableClasses?host=classname}
```

Where `classname` is the class name of the business host. For example:

```
selector?context={Ens.ContextSearch/SearchTableClasses?host=EnsLib.EDI.EDIFACT.Service.Standard}
```

#### SSL configurations

```
sslConfigSelector
```

## Specifying Default Values

You should consider how to control the default values for any settings of those items. InterSystems IRIS can take the default value for a setting from one of three sources:

*   The production definition.
    
*   The values defined for the InterSystems IRIS instance, but stored outside the production. For information, see Defining Production Defaults.
    
*   The default value for the property as defined in the host class. In this case, the default value is determined by the InitialExpression property keyword.
    

Some settings are dependent on the environment, such as TCP/IP addresses or file paths; typically you configure these settings to have their source outside the production, while others, such as `ReplyCodeActions` are design decisions and most likely you develop your application to retrieve these from the production definition.

You can develop your production to have configuration settings come from different sources. The primary purpose is to make it easier to move productions from one InterSystems IRIS instance to another, such as from test to live.

Once you define a production, you can change the source of both production and business host settings on the `Production Configuration` page of the Management Portal; see Configuring Settings.

The use of default settings allows you to define production and business host settings outside the production definition where you can preserve them during a production upgrade. To facilitate updating productions or moving productions from one system to another, you can omit settings and take their values from a structure that is installed on the system. When a setting is missing, InterSystems IRIS retrieves the default setting from outside the production definition if one exists.

For programming details, see Ens.Director class for the method signatures for the following methods:

*   `GetProductionSettingValue()`
    
*   `GetProductionSettings()`
    

## Considerations When Redefining Settings

Once you have exposed a property value as a setting, changing the name of that property poses difficulties where the setting has been used. If you change the name of such a property, it may also be necessary to change the following items:

*   Existing productions may specify a value for the setting. Because the original property no longer exists, the Production Configuration page no longer allows users to modify the value. Instead you must either directly edit the XData block in the production class (via an IDE) or remove the value programmatically. To remove the value programmatically, use the Ens.Director class, which provides the following methods for this purpose:
    
    *   `SetHostSettingValue()` for business hosts
        
    *   `SetAdapterSettingValue()` for adapters
        
    *   `SetItemSettingValue()` for business hosts or adapters
        
    
    If the value is not removed, the system logs a message when the production is started.
    
*   If System Default Setting used to specify the value for the setting, then the System Default Setting entry must be edited.
    
*   Any custom code that refers to the property must be changed.
