# [Tuning Health Insight Tables](https://docs.intersystems.com/hslatest/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=HSAAADM_tunetable#HSAAADM_tunetable)

> **Note:**
> 
> This page applies only to Health Insight deployments that use a [Feeder Gateway](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=PAGE_health_insight_AADBQ#PAGE_health_insight_aadbq).

Periodically, HealthShare Health Insight runs the Tune Table utility and then recompiles a class that uses the information generated by this utility. This behavior is automatic, but depending on how you use the Health Insight source tables, you may need to do these tasks manually on occasion.

The Tune Table utility examines the data in a table, determines metadata about the table (including the number of rows in the table and the selectivity of each field), and can update the class definition to contain that metadata. When a class definition contains such stored metadata, the InterSystems SQL engine can take advantage of it and generate optimized queries. InterSystems generally recommends that you use the Tune Table utility only when there is an order-of-magnitude change in the size of a table or there is a large change in the character of the data.

By default, Health Insight reruns the Tune Table utility on its source tables once per month, using the [Autotune HSAA Schema task](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GSA_manage_taskmgr), if the size of the Encounter table has changed by 25% or more. The Tune Table utility tunes all the tables in the `HSAA` schema, updates the associated class definitions, purges all the class queries in the namespace, and recompiles the class [HSAA.CubeQueries](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/documatic/%25CSP.Documatic.cls?LIBRARY=HSAALIB&CLASSNAME=HSAA.CubeQueries). The class [HSAA.CubeQueries](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/documatic/%25CSP.Documatic.cls?LIBRARY=HSAALIB&CLASSNAME=HSAA.CubeQueries) contains all the embedded SQL used within Health Insight; the method recompiles this class so that the embedded SQL can take advantage of the new table metadata.

Note the following points:

*   If you load new data that causes a change in the overall character of the data, you should tune the `HSAA` schema. To do so, call the `TuneHSAASchema()` method in the [HSAA.API.Data](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/documatic/%25CSP.Documatic.cls?LIBRARY=HSAALIB&CLASSNAME=HSAA.API.Data) class.
    
    Do this, for example, when you add a new type of data feed or a new facility that provides a completely different data profile than the existing data. You can find the log file for `TuneHSAASchema()` in the `mgr` directory of your Health Insight instance. The log file is named `TuneHSAASchema_<YYYYMMDD>_<HHMMSS>.log`.
    
*   If your custom code has additional embedded SQL statements, make sure to recompile that code after you call `TuneHSAASchema()` (and after Health Insight has called this method). To determine when Health Insight has called the `TuneHSAASchema()` method, navigate to the `Current System Status` dashboard (`HealthShare` > `Platform Information` > `Current System Status`). Alternatively, call the `GetTuneTableInfo()` method in the `HSAA.API.Data` class.
    

For more information on Tune Table, see “[Tune Table](https://docs.intersystems.com/hs20261/csp/docbook/DocBook.UI.Page.cls?KEY=GSOD_opttable#GSOD_opttable_tunetable)” in the InterSystems SQL Optimization Guide.
